# CHANGELOG

## UNRELEASED
- Normalised `CHANGELOG.md` headings to be `## tag - YYYY-MM-DD`.
- Prevent duplicated tags via pipeline.
- Automated merging of the latest major branch release to the master branch.

## 7.1.3 - 2026-01-19
- Reinstate minimum Terraform version to be `~> 1.6`.
- Updated to the latest version for testing of Terraform `1.14` to `1.14.3`.

## 7.1.2 - 2026-01-16
- Improve Terraform Validation processing.
- Enforced module version pinning.
- Remove redundant shebang from `terraform-validation-support.sh` script.
- Fix creation of provider alias JSON file
- Improve script error handling
- Added v1.14.1 for testing.
- Standardised versions of Terraform and Terraform Providers
- Upgrade tflint to 0.60.0
- Dropping the `v` from the versions.

## 7.1.1 - 2025-10-08
- Added validation to `var.aws_cli_command` to stop an empty command being asked for. Slight improvement as this means
  the empty command is evaluated before it is passed to the AWS CLI.
- Updated to v1.11.4 for testing.
- Added v1.13.3 for testing.
- Remove `.terraform.lock.hcl` files from Terraform modules as it is not required.
- Ignore `.terraform.lock.hcl`.
- Ignore MacOS `.DS_Store` files.
- Upgraded Terraform, Providers, TFLint, and Pre-Commit versions.

## 7.1.0 - 2025-07-03
- Added v1.12.2 for testing
- Improved support for retrying, both in terms of the retry mode and the number of retries via the new `var.retries`
  variable. Thank you [Roma Ryzhyi](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/pull/28).

## 7.0.1 - 2025-04-28
- Add v1.11.3, and reduced the number of builds to just the latest in the minor versions of Terraform from 1.6.0 onwards.
- Minor reorganization to match [Terraform Standard Module Structure](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/index.html#standard-module-structure).
- Small enhancement for TFLint when aliased providers are used.
- Added warning to README.md regarding destructive use. Thank you, [Yves Vogl](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/25).

## 7.0.0 - 2024-08-06
- Fix a typo in the description for the `var.external_id`.
- Fix handling of invalid JSON returned from the AWS CLI. Thank you, [홍수민 and horststumpf](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/pull/19).
- Introduced 2 new outputs:
  - `output.result_raw = string` - This will contain the raw output from the AWS CLI call.
  - `output.result_was_decoded = bool` - This will indicate if the output from the AWS CLI call was successfully JSON decoded.

  These were introduced as some of the results from the AWS CLI are not JSON decodable. For example `aws ec2 create-tags` returns nothing.

## 6.1.0 - 2024-01-31
- Added testing for Terraform 1.7+
- FIX : If `var.profile` and `var.assume_role_arn` are used, then continuing to use `var.profile` invalidates the
  assumed role. The `aws_cli_runner.sh` now no longer uses `var.profile` when a role has been successfully assumed.
  Thank you, [Garrett Blinkhorn](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/11).

## 6.0.2 - 2024-01-31
- FIX : Typo in `aws_cli_runner.sh` when running assuming a role. Thank you, [Garrett Blinkhorn](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/11).

## 6.0.1 - 2023-12-22
- Set the minimum version of Terraform to v1.6.0 as that is the lowest version to support `data.lifecycle` block.

## 6.0.0 - 2023-12-15
- Added error handling for errors generated by the AWS CLI to stop the Terraform Plan. The error is also present in the
  `terraform show` output in the `checks[*].instances[*].problems` node (See the
  [expected plan errors](tests/aws_error_profile_does_not_exist/expected_plan_errors.json) when an AWS error is
  triggered).
- Added a lot of Terraform variable validation to ensure the supplied parameters match the limits imposed by AWS (the
  minimum/maximum length, allowable characters, rules on first characters, etc.)
- Rewritten the [AWS CLI Runner script](./scripts/aws_cli_runner.sh) to not need to deal with wrapping parameters in
  quotes.
- Rewritten tests, mainly to reduce the amount of effort to configure them in the future.

### BACKWARDS INCOMPATIBILITY

- The `debug_log_filename` variable has been removed. As the new code will generate more files to assist in any
  debugging if it becomes necessary, a new variable `alternative_path` has been added. If set, this path will contain
  the following files:

  1. `jq_data.json` - The data managed by `jq` to get the Terraform variables accessible to AWS CLI.
  2. `jq_error.log` - Any errors generated by `jq` whilst attempting to parse the supplied JSON.
  3. `aws_sts.json` - The data returned by AWS when assuming a role.
  4. `aws_sts_error.log` - The full debug and any errors when assuming a role.
  5. `aws_call.json` - The data returned by AWS when running AWS CLI for the required call.
  6. `aws_call_error.log` - The full debug and any errors when running AWS CLI for the required call.
  7. `results.json` - The results of the AWS CLI call that are fed back to Terraform.

  But to reduce the amount of files left behind, as standard, all files except `results.json` are deleted before
  Terraform is given the `results.json` file to process.

  If you need to have access to the other files, then setting the environment variable
  `MODULE_TERRAFORM_AWS_CLI_RETAIN_LOGS` to `true` will retain all the logs shown above.

  If the `alternative_path` variable is not set, then a default path will be used based upon `./temp/[hash]`. The hash
  is the md5 of all the values of the variables supplied to the module.

## 5.2.0 - 2023-07-20

- Fixed issue introduce in v5.1.0 regarding the use of `var.external_id`.
- Introduces support for `var.profile` to allow you to supply your own AWS profile. Thank you, [coopengo-glecomte](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/8).
- Introduces support for `var.region` to allow you to supply your own AWS region.
- Refactored tests due to changes within Terraform.

## 5.1.0 - 2023-07-20

- Introduce support for `var.external_id`. Thank you, [Joshua Rosen](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/pull/6).

## 5.0.4 - 2022-11-28

- Allow `var.role_session_name` to be optional. Thank you, [Byron Kim](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/4).

## 5.0.3 - 2022-05-31

- Fix for when the AWS call being made has no output (which is invalid JSON). Thank you, [Yaron Yarimi and Pavel Kargin](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/issues/3).

## 5.0.2 - 2022-05-26

- Fix for when this module is used in an iteration.

## 5.0.1 - 2022-05-24

- Explicitly specify output type as json for assume role call. Thank you, [Niranjan Rajendran](https://github.com/digitickets/terraform-aws-cli/pull/2).

## 5.0.0 - 2022-01-27

- Fixed incompatibilities with Terraform 1.1.0.

## 4.1.0 - 2021-10-05

- Validate role_session_name so that the maximum length is 64 characters and that it must match a specific regex.

## 4.0.0 - 2021-05-18

- Set minimum terraform version to 0.15.0.

# No release required - 2021/03/30

- Updated tests to use an AWS request that does not require credentials, allowing the full terraform plan and apply
  process to be run and tested with the module.

## 3.1.1 - 2021-03-25

- Re-releasing as accidentally released v3.0.0 as v3.1.0.

## 3.1.0 - 2021-03-25

- Add an optional `debug_log_filename` variable. If supplied, a log file will be produced in the supplied location. This
  option enables the `--debug` option of the AWS CLI. Use this in safe environments as potentially sensitive content may
  be logged.
- Added [adaptive retry mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-retries.html#cli-usage-retries-modes-adaptive)
  to help alleviate throttling issues.

## 3.0.0 - 2020-12-03

- Set minimum terraform version to 0.14.0.
- Introduced `.terraform.lock.hcl` for versioning of dependencies.

## 2.0.1 - 2020-09-17

- Add `depends_on` to enforce the order in which the resources get instantiated / evaluated.

## 2.0.0 - 2020-09-17

- Set minimum terraform version to 0.13.0
- Added variable validation to optional `assume_role_arn` to match syntax described in
  [IAM Identifiers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_identifiers.html).

## 1.3.0 - 2020-08-03

- Set minimum version of random provider to 2.3.0

## 1.2.2 - 2020-05-11

- Updated examples in [README.md](README.md).

## 1.2.1 - 2020-05-11

- Updated [README.md](README.md) to reflect `digiticketsgroup/terraforming` image that includes all the required
  resources for using this module.

## 1.2.0 - 2020-05-11

- Drop down to using `sh` rather than `bash` so this module can operate with Hashicorp Terraform Docker image.

## 1.1.0 - 2020-05-07

- Updated examples in README.md with registry path as displayed by registry.
- Updated `assume_role_arn` to reflect that it is optional.

## 1.0.0 - 2020-05-07
Initial release
